## Contents of the Repository
  - README.md -- Serves as an orientation to everyone who comes to this repository, it should enable you to get their bearings. You are in the README.md file now.
  - LICENSE.md -- The terms under which they may use and cite your repository.
  - SCRIPTS folder -- Contains all the source code for the project. See section 1 of this file for more information.
  - DATA folder --  Contains all of the data for this project. 
  - OUTPUT folder -- Contains all of the output generated by our  project, e.g. figures, tables, etc.

## Section 1: Software and Platform Section
    Google Sheets/Excel was used to clean and filter the data. This was chosen because there are 
    built in sort features to filter out the ORIGIN column and allow us to easily add a column 
    based on a formula we created. To analyze the data and create the graphs, RStudio was used 
    along with the tidyverse, dplyr, ggplot2, and kableExtra libraries. To run logistic regression, 
    we used Jupyter Notebook to run the code. Windows 11 was the platform used to complete this 
    analysis. 

## Section 2: A Map of your documentation. 

- DATA
  - Airports2023.xlsx
  - April.csv
  - August.csv
  - Data_Appendix.pdf
  - Dec.csv
  - Feb.csv
  - Jan.csv
  - July.csv
  - June.csv
  - March.csv
  - May.csv 
  - Nov.csv 
  - Oct.csv 
  - Sept.csv 
- OUTPUT
  - Output.pdf 
- SCRIPTS
  - Airports.Rmd
  - Logistic_Regressionv1.ipnyb 
- LICENSE.md
- README.md


## Section 3: Steps the group used and the instructions for reproducing the results: 
1. Gather Raw Data – We secured a complete dataset of all airport departures from the U.S. Department of Transportaion [1] by downloading a dataset for each month. This data is located in the DATA folder. 
2. Filter Out Airports - For each data file, we went in and removed all rows where the ORIGIN column was not DTW, ATL, or ORD. We used Google Sheet's built in sort features to do so. 
3. Combine All Data - We created a master  Google Sheet called "Airports2023.xslx" and copy and pasted all data into this file. We used copy and paste because there is too much data to use built in merge features.
4. Create Day of the Week Column - We added a new column into the master datasheet called "day_of_week" next to the FL_DATE column and ran the following formula on each cell: =TEXT([Corresponding FL_DATE row], "dddd"). Example use is =TEXT(A3, "dddd").
5. Create Airport Column - We added a new column into the master datasheet called "ORIGIN_CODE" next to the "ORIGIN" column and ran the following formula on each cell: =IF([Corresponding ORIGIN row]="ATL", 1, IF([Corresponding ORIGIN row]="DFW", 2, IF([Corresponding ORIGIN code]="ORD", 3, ""))). Example use is =IF(D6="ATL", 1, IF(D6="DFW", 2, IF(D6="ORD", 3, "")))
6. Create Graphs - Set up RStudio and run the "Airports.RMD" file to create graphs based on the average flight delay by day of the week.
7. Run Logistic Regression - Set up Jupyter Notebook and run the "Logistic_Regressionv1.ipynb" file to see the results of logistic regression. 

### References
[1]	U.S. Department of Transportation. (n.d.). OST_R: BTS: Transtats. Available: https://www.transtats.bts.gov/DL_SelectFields.aspx?gnoyr_VQ=FGJ&QO_fu146_anzr=b0-gvzr [Accessed Feb. 29, 2024]. 





